README.md, before:

# Codesign analysis

# Experiments

## Generate TLS fetch jobs

```
export DATADIR="/storage/praha1/home/$LOGNAME/results"
mkdir -p $DATADIR

export HOMEDIR="/storage/praha1/home/$LOGNAME"
cd $HOMEDIR

export PYENV_ROOT="$HOMEDIR/.pyenv"
export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
pyenv local 2.7.13

mkdir -p jobs
cd jobs

python ../cas/codesign/censys_gen_jobs.py --home=$HOMEDIR --data=$DATADIR --wrapper ${HOMEDIR}/cas/censys_tls_wrapper.sh ${HOMEDIR}/cas/tls_ipv4_history.json
```

## Interactive job

E.g., for debugging the script / env prepare. Frontends are quite slow.

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Requesting specific node

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb:vnode=tarkil3 -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Requesting specific cluster

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb:cl_tarkil=True -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Canceling jobs

```
qdel 1085540
```

## Inspect Censys data

```
curl -s https://scans.io/zsearch/data.json.lz4 2>&1 | lz4cat | head -n 1
```

For that you may need to install lz4:

```
sudo apt-get install liblz4-tool
```

## Math modules - installation

```
#
# MPFR module load, or manual installation: http://www.mpfr.org/
#
module add mpfr-3.1.4
export CWD=$HOME

#
# install GMP https://gmplib.org/
#
wget https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.1.2.tar.bz2
tar -xjvf gmp-6.1.2.tar.bz2
cd gmp-6.1.2
./configure --prefix=$CWD
make && make install
cd $CWD

#
# install MPC http://www.multiprecision.org/index.php?prog=mpc&page=download
#
wget ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/mpc/mpc-1.0.3.tar.gz
tar -xzvf mpc-1.0.3.tar.gz
cd mpc-1.0.3
./configure --prefix=$CWD
make && make install
cd $CWD

#
# Instakk gmpy2
#
env CFLAGS="-I${CWD}/include" LDFLAGS="-L${CWD}/lib" --global-option=build_ext --global-option="-I${CWD}/include" pip install gmpy2
```

# MPI

Message passing interface enables effective parallel computation

Request nodes:

```
qsub -l select=4:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb -l walltime=1:00:00 -l place=scatter mpi-script.sh
```

The script can contain something like this:

```
mpirun -machinefile $PBS_NODEFILE python script.py
```

The `mpirun` executable will execute the script on each node in the machine file. Examples:
https://github.com/jbornschein/mpi4py-examples

## Metacentrum docs

* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_install_an_application#Python_packages
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute/Interactive_jobs
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/Working_with_data/Working_with_data_in_a_job
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/Frontend
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute/Quick_start
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/PBS_Professional
* https://metavo.metacentrum.cz/pbsmon2/user/user-here

# Installation

## Local install

```
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Dependencies

```
pip install MySql-Python
pip install SQLAlchemy
```

Ubuntu:
```
sudo apt-get install python-pip python-dev libmysqlclient-dev
```

CentOS:
```
sudo yum install python python-devel mysql-devel redhat-rpm-config gcc
```

## Scipy installation with pip

```
pip install pyopenssl
pip install pycrypto
pip install git+https://github.com/scipy/scipy.git
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Virtual environment

It is usually recommended to create a new python virtual environment for the project:

```
virtualenv ~/pyenv
source ~/pyenv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Aura / Aisa on FI MU

```
module add cmake-3.6.2
module add gcc-4.8.2
```

## Python 2.7.13

It won't work with lower Python version. Use `pyenv` to install a new Python version.
It internally downloads Python sources and installs it to `~/.pyenv`.

```
git clone https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv.git ~/.pyenv
echo 'export PYENV_ROOT="$HOME/.pyenv"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'eval "$(pyenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
exec $SHELL
pyenv install 2.7.13
pyenv local 2.7.13
```

Commit message:

readme - mysql to sqlite info added

README.md, after:

# Codesign analysis

# Experiments

## Generate TLS fetch jobs

```
export DATADIR="/storage/praha1/home/$LOGNAME/results"
mkdir -p $DATADIR

export HOMEDIR="/storage/praha1/home/$LOGNAME"
cd $HOMEDIR

export PYENV_ROOT="$HOMEDIR/.pyenv"
export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
pyenv local 2.7.13

mkdir -p jobs
cd jobs

python ../cas/codesign/censys_gen_jobs.py --home=$HOMEDIR --data=$DATADIR --wrapper ${HOMEDIR}/cas/censys_tls_wrapper.sh ${HOMEDIR}/cas/tls_ipv4_history.json
```

## Interactive job

E.g., for debugging the script / env prepare. Frontends are quite slow.

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Requesting specific node

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb:vnode=tarkil3 -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Requesting specific cluster

```
qsub -l select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb:cl_tarkil=True -l walltime=48:00:00 -I
```

## Canceling jobs

```
qdel 1085540
```

## Inspect Censys data

```
curl -s https://scans.io/zsearch/data.json.lz4 2>&1 | lz4cat | head -n 1
```

For that you may need to install lz4:

```
sudo apt-get install liblz4-tool
```

## MySQL to SQLite

 - One may use export scripts, but this is a bit slower
 - Faster solution: mysqldump + sqlite import.

In the latter the schea is created by the export script

```
mysqldump --skip-extended-insert --compact --hex-blob -u codesign -p codesign \
    --tables maven_artifact maven_signature pgp_key > maven_dump.sql

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dumblob/mysql2sqlite/master/mysql2sqlite
chmod +x mysql2sqlite

./mysql2sqlite maven_dump.sql | sqlite3 maven.sqlite
```


## Math modules - installation

```
#
# MPFR module load, or manual installation: http://www.mpfr.org/
#
module add mpfr-3.1.4
export CWD=$HOME

#
# install GMP https://gmplib.org/
#
wget https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.1.2.tar.bz2
tar -xjvf gmp-6.1.2.tar.bz2
cd gmp-6.1.2
./configure --prefix=$CWD
make && make install
cd $CWD

#
# install MPC http://www.multiprecision.org/index.php?prog=mpc&page=download
#
wget ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/mpc/mpc-1.0.3.tar.gz
tar -xzvf mpc-1.0.3.tar.gz
cd mpc-1.0.3
./configure --prefix=$CWD
make && make install
cd $CWD

#
# Instakk gmpy2
#
env CFLAGS="-I${CWD}/include" LDFLAGS="-L${CWD}/lib" --global-option=build_ext --global-option="-I${CWD}/include" pip install gmpy2
```

# MPI

Message passing interface enables effective parallel computation

Request nodes:

```
qsub -l select=4:ncpus=1:mem=1gb:scratch_local=1gb -l walltime=1:00:00 -l place=scatter mpi-script.sh
```

The script can contain something like this:

```
mpirun -machinefile $PBS_NODEFILE python script.py
```

The `mpirun` executable will execute the script on each node in the machine file. Examples:
https://github.com/jbornschein/mpi4py-examples

## Metacentrum docs

* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_install_an_application#Python_packages
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute/Interactive_jobs
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/Working_with_data/Working_with_data_in_a_job
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/Frontend
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/How_to_compute/Quick_start
* https://wiki.metacentrum.cz/wiki/PBS_Professional
* https://metavo.metacentrum.cz/pbsmon2/user/user-here

# Installation

## Local install

```
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Dependencies

```
pip install MySql-Python
pip install SQLAlchemy
```

Ubuntu:
```
sudo apt-get install python-pip python-dev libmysqlclient-dev
```

CentOS:
```
sudo yum install python python-devel mysql-devel redhat-rpm-config gcc
```

## Scipy installation with pip

```
pip install pyopenssl
pip install pycrypto
pip install git+https://github.com/scipy/scipy.git
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Virtual environment

It is usually recommended to create a new python virtual environment for the project:

```
virtualenv ~/pyenv
source ~/pyenv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install --upgrade --find-links=. .
```

## Aura / Aisa on FI MU

```
module add cmake-3.6.2
module add gcc-4.8.2
```

## Python 2.7.13

It won't work with lower Python version. Use `pyenv` to install a new Python version.
It internally downloads Python sources and installs it to `~/.pyenv`.

```
git clone https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv.git ~/.pyenv
echo 'export PYENV_ROOT="$HOME/.pyenv"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'eval "$(pyenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
exec $SHELL
pyenv install 2.7.13
pyenv local 2.7.13
```
